Right, so in the last video
we joined and split strings.
In this video we're gonna turn our focus
to the four replace methods, on the string class.
So we're gonna create a new class
called string replacement.
We're still in our strings project.
And you can see that we're creating some variables
and we're going through various calls
of the replace method.
And we've got replace calling on line 17.
And also on line 22,
we've got replace all that we're calling on line 27.
Replace first on line 23.
Let's just run this and see the results.
So what this code confirms
is that you can replace a single character with another,
for the entire string.
You can replace one substring for another,
You can replace a substring identified by
a regular expression, for another substring,
for the entire string.
And also you can replace the first match only
of a substring identified by a regular expression,
with some other substring.
All right, so let's look at some examples now
of the substring method, as well as the subsequence methods.
Okay, so there's our code, if we actually run this,
you can see the results we've got there
for substring seven, substring 3,7.
So if substring seven up here, starting on line 44,
you can see we've used mississippi.substring(7).
And perhaps not surprised getting ippi as the result.
Substring 3,7 gives us siss.
Subsequence 3,7 gives us siss.
And mississipi equals mississipi,
that's where we're using the last call there,
and that was basically determining that
the value of mississippi hadn't changed.
So I think we'd agree that's a pretty straightforward code.
But it does point at something very important
about the replace and substring methods.
The methods do not change the current string value,
which is always immutable for a string.
Rather, the method returns a new string with either
the substring or the replaced value.
Now if you see examples like this on the certification exam,
just remember that the string value will not change,
unless you set the result to a self reference
as shown in the next code segment
that I'm about to paste in.
All right, so this example that I'm talking about
it's basically the self reference being updated.
So we can confirm that the mississipi variable
should now hold the reference to the string miss
because we've got that assignment on line 61.
And you can see that's confirmed.
All right, so finally, I just wanna show a few examples
of the transformation methods that I talked about.
And specifically the one's that are new,
which are repeat and strip, but also a review
of value of and why this one needs a revisit.
So, we're gonna create a new class.
We'll call this one text transform.
Okay, there's the code.
We're gonna demonstrate how the repeat method works here.
So, if we run this now,
so the first instance perhaps seems obvious,
and returns our string repeated three times,
but note the second call of the method,
with a zero account returns an empty string,
not the string itself which may not seem obvious at all.
So, Java 11 introduced a method strip,
strip leading and strip trailing.
So, in this slide now, I'm showing the difference
between the trim and the strip methods.
So firstly, strip is new to Java 11.
Strip is now the preferred method, going ahead in Java 11.
And both trim and strip do trim both leading
and trailing white space,
but note the white space definition.
Trim uses less than or equal to uni code plus 0020,
which is a space,
or a strip uses character dot is white space
to determine that definition.
Pretty important difference there.
Really, the main point I'm making about this slide
is that the strip in fact strips more space characters
than trim, but also offers strip leading
and strip trailing methods as well.
All right, so I mentioned a value of.
Let's revisit value of.
I'm gonna paste this code at the bottom of this class.
All right, like so.
I'm gonna run this and then we'll talk about the results.
I'll just put that on the screen so you can see it.
Now what I specifically want you to notice here,
basically between this value of method
and this substring method is that value of
uses a start offset and a count of characters
to be included, like the constructive methods.
The substring method on the other hand,
uses a start offset and an end offset.
Start being inclusive and offset being exclusive.
As of Java 9, three streaming methods were added to string,
chars, codepoints and lines.
Now, streams are not part of the first certification
exam objective but are part of the second,
so I won't be reviewing these here now.
But, in IZO-816 course, that I'll be releasing
pretty early in 2020, we'll address those at that point
but the bottom line is, for the first exam,
you don't need to worry about those new streaming methods.
All right, so at this point, it's been a few videos
but that concludes our review of the string methods.
There were a lot to cover and we went through it
pretty quickly, and the reason for that
is the string is a very common thing to be using in Java,
so I assumed that you're fairly familiar
with a lot of the standard string methods
and really only tried to focus on things
you may get tripped up with in the exam.
Now just as a reminder and a recap to remember these things,
firstly, strings are immutable.
Any method you use that returns a value
needs to be assigned to a different string reference
or back to the current one.
We'll be reviewing this again when we talk about
StringBuilders which are mutable.
String constructors and value of methods use a start offset,
inclusive, and a count of characters.
But all other methods, or other string methods,
where applicable use a start offset, which is inclusive,
and an end offset, which is exclusive.
Methods that use regular expressions are matches,
which must match an entire string,
split, replace all and replace first.
All right, so I'll end the video here
and in the next one we'll touch on some of the
out of the ordinary topics of the string class
that we didn't cover here or that need to be reviewed
in more detail.
See you in the next video.